The Distribution of Wealth in a Life-Cycle Model with DurablesInvestigate empirical predictions of the life-cycle incomplete markets model (Gourinchas and Parker, 2002; Cagetti, 2003; Castañeda et al., 2003; Kaplan and Violante, 2010; Yang, 2009,), thus contribute to the literature that “demonstrate that a plausibly parameterized version of their models can quantitatively explain empirical findings as arising from rational choices of consumers facing an increasing wage profile and income uncertainty”.The model is based on the classic income-fluctuation problem in which the consumer faces a stochastic income process and decides in every period how much to save and how much to consume. Important contributions to the literature are Deaton (1991), Carroll (1992,1997), Gourinchas and Parker (2002). “Following Bewley (1986), this problem has been embedded by Huggett (1993) and Aiyagari (1994) into a general equilibrium framework, giving rise to the endogenous determination of the interest rate as well as a nontrivial income, wealth, and consumption distribution at equilibrium. “Furthermore, this paper relates to other literature such as: Endogenous borrowing constraint: The specification of the borrowing constraint  in FV&K(2011) is adapted from the recent endogenous incomplete-markets literature: Kehoe and Levine (1993), Kocherlakota (1996), Krueger and Perri (1999, 2006), and Alvarez and Jermann (2000). Lustig (2004) also has a model with durable assets and an endogenous borrowing constraint to explain the equity premium puzzle, however agents have full access to Arrow securities and are infinitely lived.Literature on optimal portfolio choice in the presence of consumer durables: Grossman and Laroque (1990), Eberly (1994), Chah et al. (1995), and Flavin and Yamashita (2002).  Literature on wealth distribution: ???? The life-cycle modelKuhn&Rios_Rull(2016): “Some of the differences in earnings, income, and wealth across households can be safely attributed to the differences in people’s ages ¬– so much so that a large literature in economics organizes its models around the households’ life cycle. “Attanasio&Weber(2010)-	Life cycle model is a framework where individuals maximize utility over time given a set of intertemporal trading opportunities. Thereby, decisions depend on the total amount of resources, which in the intertemporal context are, current and future income as well as current wealth, on preferences over the different commodities (in the intertemporal context: present and future consumption, and possibly bequests), and on relative prices (interest rates and intertemporal trade opportunities. Moreover, the intertemporal budget constraint, which implicitly assumes a certain market structure and the instruments consumers have to move resources over time (and across states of the world) is an integral part of life-cycle models. -	The importance of simulation: o	To study how consumption changes with changes in income and interest rates for different values of the structural parameters (not possible to obtain closed form solutions)o	Study aspects of life cycle behavior that cannot be studies with the Euler Equation – durables, housing, etc, since transaction costs lead to infrequent adjustments -	Empirical regularities: The mean ideas behind the use of the life cycle model to explain empirical regularities such as: aggregate consumption expenditure is less volatile than income and the marginal propensity to consume seems to be smaller in the short run than in the long run (macro facts that can be found in micro data), is that consumers have concave utility functions and, therefore, prefer smooth paths of consumtion (over time and across states of the world) over variable ones. Thus, only unanticipated changes in income that are perceived as permanent will induce substantive changes in consumption. “(Intuitively, the theoretical framework implies that innovations to permanent income should be fully incorporated in consumption, while innovations to transitory consumption of income should not. (We are abstracting herefrom the possibility of insuring permanent shocks and implicitly considering a consumer who has access to a fairly limited portfolio of assets to move resources over time and across states of the world.))”  o	This contradicts paper from Carroll and Lawrence(1991), which shows that life cycle profiles of income and consumption track each other.o	However, need to correct for the fact that different generations have access to different life cycle resources (as assumed by the life cycle model) -> the result is that the life-time tracking is less pronounced •	It follows that one cannot take the simplest version, but has to account for the fact that consumption needs evolve over time as family composition changes (Attanasio and Browning (1995)) -> profiles of consumption are now much flattero	The fall of consumption in the latter stages of life:•	Dabuek S, Hanernesg (1984): consumers do not save enough to achieve complete consumption smoothing consistent by decumulating assets •	(recent estimates of the consumption fall (p700)o	The evolution of the cross-sectional distribution of consumption – and income. •	Paxson (1994) if income has unit root -> cross-sectional section of consumption increases over time•	Blundell and Ian Preston (1998):“difference between increase in cross-sectional variance of income and of consumption will identify changes in cross-sectional variance of transitory income.” (only using an imperfect market structure-	Life Cycle Model:o	Facts that can be used as criticisms of the model:•	1) age profile of consumption is hump shaped – tracking age profile of income for each education group ; “moreover, gropus of individuals that have “steep” income age profiles, seem to have steep consumption age profiles;•	2) consumption drops at retirement•	3) growth rate of consumption seems “too” sensitive to predictable changes in income•	4) consumption seems to react to changes in available resources that are fully predictable and transitory, such as tax refunds o	main idea: “consumers are supposed to allocate resources over time in order to maximize life time utility subject to a resource constraint. o	Important specifications•	Preferences – •	The discount factor beta is time varying to take into account mortality risk (helps to explain why consumption falls in old age, as survival probability falls with age – making the consumer progressively more impatient)•	Here, assumption that hh behaves as unit.•	Assumption that return does not depend on net position taken by the consumer on each of these assets•	Assumption: consumer has to die without debt (pay back debt with probability 1 = non-bankruptcy constraint)– this restriction imposes quantitatively important limitations to the ability to smooth consumption! (suppose that income process not bounded away from 0, if we further assume inada conditions for consumption, then consumer would never want to borrow in such a situation. (Imp. For income process) since debt toghether with non-bankruptcy constraint -> generalization to where income process is bounded away from zero – consumer will not want to borrow more than the present value of the lowest level of incomeo	Similar considerations apply whenever the survival proba is less than one if longevity risks cannot be fully insured???? (p705)•	More assumptions, amongst others preferences are additively separable over time precluding consideration of various types of nonseparability, e.g. durables•	Power- , isoelastic, or constant relative risk aversion utility o	No closed form solution for consumptiono	EEQ:•	Agnostic about stockastic environment, time horizon, possible presence of a bequest motive, presence of imperfections in financial markets and presence of frictions in other variables affecting utility (all relevant information is summarized in the level of the marginal utility of wealth)•	Useful from empirical point of view – can used to estimate preference parameters and test the validity of model without being explicit about all the details of the stochastic environment faced by the consumer•	Version of EEQ holds even if consumer chooses durable consumption and non-durable consumption•	Reflects main essence of life cycle models- the fact that consumption is chosen so to keep discounted, expected marginal utility constant over time•	It is used to test the validity of some of the model assumptions and to estimate preference parameters o	Elasticity of intertemporal substitution of consumption is constant and thus implies that the substitutability of consumption is independent of the level of consumption. Moreover the same parameter governs risk aversionMy model is a life-cycle model where agents chose between non-durable consumption and durable consumption as well as a liquid asset in each period.  The one period bond serves as insurance against income shocks, whereas the durable provides, both insurance against the idiosyncratic risk as well as collateral value. Moreover, durable consumption is directly modeled into the utility function. Four key patterns of the model (Fernandez- Villaverde and Krueger, 2011):a)	a highly persisten stochastic idiosyncratic labor-income processb)	b) a hump-shaped mean over the life cyclec)	the presence of durables that yield consumption services and can be used as collateral, in addition to a standard one-period bond whose short sales are subject to a borrowing constraintd)	 endogenous determination of the interest rate in general equilibrium The Income pattern: See Gottschalk and Moffitt (1994) and Hansen (1993). -	although use different approach here Justification of c) -	the presence of durables is motivated by empirical observation that they constitute a large fraction of households’ asset holdings -	moreover life-cycle pattern of nondurable consumption may be intimately related to the life-cycle pattern of the accumulation of durables (avstraction may severely bias study of life-cycle profile of nondurable consumption and asset accumulation) Absence of possibility to insure against indiosyncratic income shocks by trading contingent claims is justified by moral hazard problems (FV&K (2011) p.16)Endogenously determined interest rate in GE-	life-cycle profile of consumption and asset accumulation depends crucially on ratio between subjective time-discount factor and interest rate o	further interested in interaction between durables and business cycle and evaluations of welfare effects of different fiscal policies -	See Gourinchas and Parker (2002) for a partial equilibrium model-	Note that in the latter, markets do not clear at each point of timeInitial Conditions-	FV&K (2011) assume that initial durable and initial position of capital is 0 in most of their applications. Utility function -	FV&K (2011) u is assumed to be strictly increasing in both arguments (durables and non-durable consumption), strictly concave, with diminishing marginal utility from both arguments, and obeying the Inada conditions with respect to nondurable consumption. Instantaneous utility from being dead is normalized to zero and expectations are taken with respect to the stochastic processes governing survival and labor productivity. o	Note they include a section on timing and information p.17o	In their equilibrium: four constraints: budget constraint, borrowing constraint and c and d need to be positive •	Constraints are allowed to vary by age and current labor productivity status (since markets for contingent claims are assumed to be inoperative, the borrowing constraints cannot depend on the realization of the productivity shock next period) o	Use a more generic formulation of the utility function and then explain, why the one used by H&K(2010) is a reasonable benchmark case. (pp 23-24). •	Note that epsilon (autonomous durable consumption) is a “number small enough to be irrelevant to our quantitative exercises, but makes the utility function finite for durables = 0 (the intuition being that one can survive without a house and other consumer durables, but one cannot survive without food).Is mine a stationary equilibrium? (if partial equilibrium always the case????!!!!!)-	The borrowing constraints-	FV&K(2011) “specify the borrowing limits b ̄(kd′,η,j),to be the smallest number to satisfy: V(b ̄(kd′,η,j),kd′,η′,j+1)≥V(0,0,η′,j+1) forallη′ ∈E;  , meaning that households can borrow up tot he point at which, ro all possible realizations of the stochastic labor productivity shock tomorrow, they have an incentive to repay their debt rather than to default, with the default consequence being specified as losing their debt, but also their consumer durables. Thus consumer durables play an important role not only in generating consumption services but also as collateralizable assets against which agents can borrow.“o	They also present results with borrowing limits specified s.t. no borrowing is permitted, b ̄(.) = 0 and b ̄(.) = -k*d, where k is a percentage of stock of consumer durables. “Note that the former is implicitly (via judicious (vernünftig) choice of the income process) or explicitly assumed by life-cycle models where durables are absent. “ FV&K(2011) then present differences. o	Moreover, the authors justify the absence of a durable goods rental market (p.20), by indicating that in any circumstance renting is dominated by purchasing.  -> note that this argument changes with the introduction of transactions and agency costs associated with purchases of consumer durables. (“See Platania and Schlagenhauf (2000) for an explicit life-cycle analysis of the purchase vs. renting decision for housing •	Their final argument is, that the  marginal costs of the computational burden including rental market would are higher than the marginal benefits and that in any case the existence of collateralized loans does reduce the theoretical role of rental markets and thus the results are sufficiently well reproduced without this additional feature. Calibration-	FV&K(2011) pick an interest rate of r = 4% “(see McGrattan and Prescott (2001) for a justification of this number based on their measure of the return on capital and on the risk-free rate of inflation-protected U.S. treasur bonds)Income Process-	FV&K(2011): follow Storesletten et al. (2007),  differing from Abowd and Card (1989, Carroll (1992), or Gourinchas and Parker (2002) in two aspects:o	Do not allow labor income to go to zero, “ even if this event has a very low probability (Carroll (1992) estimates this probability as 0.003 for a year), its effects on intertemporal allocations are substantial: households will not borrow any positive amount because they may face a lifelong sequence of zero labor income and may be unable to consume a positive amount and reply their debt in some period. This implication seems debatable, in particular in light of the existence of a collection of public income-support programs in the United States, given that the notion of labor income in the model should be interpreted as after-tax, after-government transfer labor income. o	“do not impose a unit root in the autoregressive process for zit because Storesletten et al. (2001) are able to regect the null of a unit root. (Part of the appeal of the unit root assumption dervies from the fact that, as Deaton (1991), it simplifies the computation of the household problem, because one state variable can be eliminated. ) This choice remains, however, an open and debated issue. In small samples it is very difficult to separate a unit root from our value, especially because with finitely lived families, the stochastic process cannot drift awaytoo much from its initial condition. (we performed Monte Carlo simulations to check that, when individual wages generated with our chosen process are estimated with a unit root process, we in general cannot regect the null of nonstationarity.) Fortunately, our results are not very sensitive to this choice, as shown below when we perform sensitivity analysis by increasing rho toward unity.o	Finally, they also use tauchen. Why is it important to model durables? Life-Cycle ProfilesContrary to the standard life-cycle model  with complete financial markets, where individuals smooth consumption over their lifetimes and across states of the world, consumption over the life is hump shaped, even after controlling for family size (Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger, 2011). Understanding this puzzle is important from an applied policy analysis. Changing individual behavior over the life cycle implies that social security reforms, public provision of saving incentives, or welfare consequences of progressive taxation will vary by age groups. Furthermore, the life-cycle patter of households’ portfolio composition demands a model that includes an explicit formulation of the purchase decisions on consumer durables. It is thus problematic to omit this modeling choice (sucha as Carroll (1997) or Gourinchas and Parker (2002), who rely on hh consuming up to the age of 40 all of their imcome apart from a small buffer to insure against future bad income shocks) when nondurable and durable consumption interact in a nonseparable way. As Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2011) put forward, consumers accumulate durables early in life and consume the rest of disposable income, without any saving in financial assets since durables provide consumption service flows, as well as collateralizable insurance against uninsurable idiosyncratic income risk. The literature Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2011) point out two key patterns of consumption and asset holdings over the life cycle. Namely, Consumption expenditures on both durable and nondurable goods are hump-shaped over the life-cycle and young households keep very few liquid assets and hold most of their wealth in consumer durables, while they accumulate more financial assets to save for retirement later in life. They show that “the interaction between consumer durables that provide both consumption and collateral services and endogenous borrowing constraints gives rise to accumulation of durables (and no accumulation of financial assets) early in life and substitution toward higher consumption of nondurables and the accumulation of financial assets later in life. “ Their discussion is part of a larger literature. One one part the literature studying the interaction of household nondurable consumption choices and consumer durables. Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2007) and Yang (2009) provide empirical evidence on expenditures for consumer durables over the life cycle. Moreover: Martin (2003), Ortalo-Magne and Rady (2006), Li and Yao (2007), Diaz and Luego-Prado (2008), Kiyotaki et al. (2008), and Iacoviello and Pavan (2009) are also important papers. Secondly, the importance of housing for the accumulation of wealth and for portfolio composition is a theme dealt by an important part of the literature. Grossman and Laroque (1990) and Berkovec and Fullerton (1992), Gervais (2002), Gruber and Martin (2003), Martin and Gruber (2004), Cocco (2005), Nakajima (2005), Yao and Thang (2005), Silos (2007a, 2007b), Diaz and Luego-Prado, and HIntermaier and Koeniger (2009). Thirdly, the role as collateral of consumer durables in general and housing in particular. A theme of recent literature focusing on the joint housing and mortgage choice. For example Hurst and Stafford (2004), Luengo-Prado (2006), Chambers et al. (2009a, 2009b). Moreover, a small and growing literature on structural models of forecolusers within this context: Jeske and Krueger (2005) and Garriga and Schlagenhauf (2009). Carroll and li (2008. Finally papers attempting to estimate models of housing choice: Sanchez (2997), Bahari et al. (2008) and Li et al. (2009). Show evidence from Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2011)The consumption pattern1.	Empirical Evidence Empirical evidence from Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2011)-	They use data from the Consumer Expenditure Survey (CEX) to show that consumption expenditure on nondurable consumption follows a hump-shape pattern over the life cycle. -	Further empirical literature about the life-cycle profile of consumption observed in cross-sectional micro data: Blundell et al. (1994), Attanasio and Browning (1995), Attanasio and Weber (1995), Gourinchas and Parker (2002). -	The Key question in FV&K(2011): Does consumption still follow a hump-shaped life-cycle profile, once changes in family size are controlled for? -	Their key finding is that the hump exists for nondurable as well as durable expenditure-	Empirical evidence: o	Traditional prediction of a life-cycle model with complete financial markets: “life-cycle consumption profiles should be smooth. Namely, if the period utility function is time-invariant and the time discount factor is constant, households will choose consumption plans to equate marginal utility across time and states of the world, possibly with some growth rate, depending on the relative size of the real interest rate and the discount factor. Under CRRA (Constant Relative Risk Aversion), period utility consumption growth itself should be constant across time. With complete markets, consumption smoothing can be achieved through the transfer of contingent claims across periods and states. ( this statement relies on the further assumption that leisure and consumption are separable in the period utility function. For instance, Ghez and Becker (1973) propose a model where consumption services are produced with time and consumption goods as inputs. When time becomes more expensive (i.e., labor income is higher), agents substitute goods for time in the production function of consumer services, generating a correlation between labor income and consumption.)“ •	The first empirical question answered in Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2011) hence, looks at household-level consumption data and seeks to confirm that consumption is smooth over the life-cycle. •	Deaton (1992) provides an overview for the literature answering this question. “The main stylized fact emerging in this literature was that consumption seems to track income over the life cycle, changing only when income changes and not when it becomes known that income will change, as economic theory predicts. -> was interpreted as indication for liquidity constraints or other financial market imperfections.  •	Blundell et al. (1994), Attanasio and Browning (1995) and Attanasio et al. (1999) argue that if one adjusted the consumption data for changes in household size (which is also hump-shaped over the life-cycle) and composition the hump in life cycle consumption disappears. FV&K (2011) challenge this view and argue that consumption follows a hump even after controlling for demographics. Other literature:-	Dotsey_et_al(2014), look at difference between life-cycle expenditure and life-cycle production (Aguiar and Hurst (2007b) make a similar point). They look at heterogeneity in consumption (Aguiar and Hurst (2013)), contrary to the approach, where one only looks at aggregate consumptiono	Consider a modified model of FV&K(2011) and Yang (2009)o	Support FV&K (2011) in the sense that collateralized borrowing constraints and the income features are responsible for the increasing consumption profiles in the early part of a hh’s life cycleo	Their explanation of the consumption hump: “ Expecting to have much higher earnings in the future, young households would like to borrow to finance their current consumption but they are borrowing constrained. This explains why, early in life, consumption of all categories increases. Later in life, households start to decrease overall consumption due to the fact that they are discounting future consumption by more as they age and face a lower survival rate. Additionally, older households substitute home consumption for market consumption. The demand for housing in the model matches well the empirical profiles, increasing rapidly early in life and downsizing slowly later in life. Households start with little housing stock. Because of the existence of borrowing constraints and the role of housing as collateral, however, they forgo other consumption and build their housing stock rather quickly. This trend continues until they reach age 65. After that, the housing stock starts to decline slowly because of transactions costs and the increase in home hours, which are complements to the home input and housing in home production. Further, older homeowners are less likely than young ones to move and incure the accompanying transactions costs, because they gave a shorter expected life span and hence house tenure.” o	The distpersion of consumption:•	Consumption dispersion over the life cycle. “Model captures the consumption inequalities up to age 62 reasonabley well. After that, out model implies much smaller standard errors than the data. This result largely comes from our assumption that everyone receives the same social security payment ager age 62 regardless of his income history. (might be different in my model)“o	Part 7 - INSPECTING THE MODEL’S MECHANISMS•	Look at different variations of the model. May serve as basis for different analysis, as for example the impact of adjustment costs -	Pagel (2017)o	“Incorporates expectations-based reference-dependent preferences into a dynamic stochastic model to explain three major life-cycle consumption facts:•	lagged consumption responses to income shocks.•	Hump-shape consumption profile – early in life, consumption is low due to a first-order precautionary-savings motive, as uncertainty resolves, this motive is dominated by time-inconsistent overconsumption, forcing consumption to decline toward the end of life•	Consumption drops at retirement – when uncertainty is absent, the agent does not overconsume because he dislikes the associated certain loss in future consumption. -	Revisiting the Effect of Household Size on Consumption Over the Life-Cycle (Alexander Bick and Sekyu Choi)-	Consumer Financial Behavior: An Interdisciplinary Review of Selected Theories and Research-	The housing Wealth effect on consumption considered: Fabian Lindner-	Hbit formation and housing over the life cycle – Aydilek (2013)-	Saving and wealth inequality - M de Nardi and G Fella (2017)Part on the Consumer Expenditure Survey data (CEX) -	FV&K(2011) use CEXo	Attanasio (1999): “CEX has become one of the main sources for empirical work on consumption”o	“It is a rotating panel of about 5’000 households, where each household is interviewed every three months over five calendar quarters, and every quarter 20% of the sample is replaced by new households •	Problems with respect to life-cycle profiles in economic theory: •	CEX only measures consumption expenditures, and not consumption service flows from these expenditures•	CEX only contains a very limited panel dimension – households provide at most four subsequent quarters of consumption data•	How they address these problems (FV&K 2007 for more insights):•	Distinction between consumption services and expenditures is not very relevant to nondurable goods but crucial to durableso	Argue that their model has implications for the life-cycle profile of expenditures on nondurables and durables •	Construction of a pseudopanel•	Use a certain specification to extimate life-cycle consumption expenditure profiles•	They control for cohort and time effects and compare consumption expenditure when additionally controlling for family size and leaving the control for family size out. •	They find that the adjustment by family size reduces the hump, which they measure as the ratio between consumption at the paek and at the beginning of the life cycle, by 50%. •	The reduction of the hump is similar for durables and non-durables •	Both profiles peak at around the same household age. •	Conclusion: “ the other half remains a puzzle from the perspective of the standard life-cycle model with complete financial markets. This is especially true for the profile of expenditures on consumer durables. If the period utility function is separable in nondurable consumption and services from durables, and the real interest rate is equal to the time discount factor and constant over time, then it is optimal simply to purchase the desired stock of durables early in life and only replace depreciation from there on. In contrast, our data display that the process of durables accumulation is incremental over the life cycle, consistent with other work that has documented liquidity constraints in the purchases of consumption durables [Eberly (1994); Alessie et al. ()1997; Barrow and McGranahan (2000); Attanasio et al. (2005)], or argued for the importance of nonseparabilities in the utility function [Attanasio and Weber (1995)].”s2.	In the model -	FV&K(2011): o	Obtain averages by integrating the policy functions with respect to the equilibrium measure of agents, holding age fixed! •	“Due to stochastic death, cohorts are not of the same size, so that population averages are weighted averages of cohort averages.•	Hump shaped income profile: due to construction•	“Expenditures on nondurable consumption obey a hump-shaped life-cycle pattern, with peak around the age of 45 (the spike in the first period is due to the fact that agents start with durables = 0. To avoid very low utility, hh choose a high consumption of nondurables. A possible remedy would be to endow agents with a small positive stock of consumer durables at birth) and a pattern and, more importantly, a size (about 40% bigger than age 20). The increase in nondurable consumption in the early part of life is due to two factors in our model, both of which are crucially dependent on the presence of consumer durables:•	since durables generate service flows, early in life it is optimal to build up the stock of consumer durables and compromise on the consumption of nondurables.•	Once the stock of nondurables is built up, due to the nonseparabilities in the utility function the marginal utility from nondurable consumption is higher, bechause of a higher stock of durables. The hump shape is nondurable consumption is not due to buffer stock behavior per se as in Carroll (1992) or Gourinchas and Parker (2002): households in our model, once they have accumulated consumer durables, can use these as collateralizable insurance against unfavorable labor productivity shocks as their borrowing capacity increases with their holding of durables. It is important to note the increase of consumption later in life. This small increase is due to lifetime uncertainty (should not be present in my case). Households want to buffer until almost the end of their lives, then they consume in the last periods, because survival probabilities are low or zero. •	We see how average consumption tracks deterministic average labor income. Because this income increase is perfectly forecastable, our model displays excess sensitivity of consumption to income, as suggested by empirical data, and contrary to the predictions of the basic life cycle-permanent income model (see Deaton (1992) for a review.)•	Evolution of average wealth portfolio over the life cycle.:•	Early in life, households borrow as much as possible to buy houses and other consumer durables. As time goes by, the stock of durables is built up and holdings of financial assets, as well as nondurable consumption, increase. Because households can borrow against their durable assets, the accumulation of financial assets occurs for life-cycle and not for insurance purposes. Our model reproduces important facts about the life-cycle composition of wealth: young households do save (net worth becomes significantly positive by the age of 35), but they do not save in financial assets, but rather in consumer durables. As households become older, financial assets become a more important part of the household’s wealth portfolio, with these assets being accumulated primarily to finance consumption in retirement. Note that total net worth peaks at age 64, the year prior to retirement. Note that households hold substantial net worth until high ages, mainly for insurance against living too long. This corresponds to the observation that elderly households seem to overaccumulate assets ( or more precisely they do not run down their wealth fast enough). This peak in net worth in net worth at age 64 would be far less pronounced in the presence of a pay-as-yu go social security system, because part of the life-cycle motive for savings and the precautionary savings motive due to stochastic mortality disappears. •	Consumer durables: the stock follows a hump shape, differing from a complete-markets model where the desired stock is built up in the first period and only an amount equalto depreciation is spent each period thereafter. •	Comparing durable consumption (model) and durable expenditure (the data): the model generates a pattern of consumer durables that somehow diverges from the observed pattern: there is a big peak in the first years and then it falls, even though it is possible to see something of a hump after the first spike. o	One possible explanation is that in the data young families obtain bequests, which in large part come as consumer durables. o	A second possible explanation is the endogenous formation of households in the data. In our model, all households enter their active economic life at age 20, a time period where they want to build up the desired stock of capital. In the data, however, economically active (in the sense of our model) households are created endogenously due to differences in marriage timing and education. This endogeneity smooths out the first big spike of durable expenditures in the data and leads to the pattern of life-cycle durables expenditure reported in section 2. (this divergence between data and model may also indicate that our borrowing constraint is specified too loosely, allowing households to invest in consumer durables at too rapid a pace when young. ”o	Plotting several simulated life-cycle patterns to observe how households adjust their consumption decisions to labor income shocks.•	Show that income shocks are not able to overcome, the general pattern of a life-cycle hump in consumption on average. •	They then perceed in computing the model with setting the variances of labor income innovations to zero. Come up with two results:•	Half of the hump in nondurable consumption disappears. “With uncertainty, borrowing constraints are tighter, because default has to be prevented in all income states tomorrow, in particular in the high-income states. A tighter borrowing constraint makes consumption commove more with income. In addition, risk-averse households postpone a larger fraction of consumption until an important degree of uncertainty is revealed. In constrast, without labor income uncertainty, this effect is absent and higher nondurable consumption sets in earlier in life. •	The average holding of durables is smaller. As explained before, in an environment with unisnsurable stochastic labor income, durables are also accumulated because of the collateral services they provide in allowing borrowing to smooth nondurable consumption. Average holding of durables is reduced by around 15% for prime age households. o	Finally model also predicts some other facts:•	“ Only 58% of the households hold any financial wealth in equilibrium, and these are households in later periods of their life. This low participation corresponds to the evidence on financial assets from the SCF and is obtained without the need for model elements such as a very high elasticity of intertemporal substitution or transaction costs, commonly used in the literature to generate similar results. The presence of an alternative asset that also generates consumption and collateral services is enough to discourage 42% of households from participating in financial markets. “ (here, maybe try to run the model without utility on durables, or even try to also turn off collateral benefits by adjusting collateral constraint!) •	“ Second, consumer durables can help to explain why households with higher life-cycle income save proportionally more than poor households (see the empirical evidence presented in Dynan et al. (2004)). Comparing hh that always enoys the high labor income shock, ex post, with hh that always suffers from low income shock, ex post. The high-income hh, despite having a realized lifetime income that is only 2.6 times higher than that of the low-income hh, has accumulated over six times more financial assets at age 65. This result comes from the strong nonhomogeneity introduced by the dural role of durables as a saving instrument and a consumption good: as the household becomes richer, the marginal utility of durables decreases and financial assets become relatively more attractive. Quantitatively, around 50, the high-income household only has around twice as many durables as the low income household, but has already accumulated an important stock of financial assets when the poor household still has negative financial wealth.”o	Sensitivity analysis.•	Alternative borrowing constraints•	“ad hoc borrowing constraint, as for example Aiyagari (1994) and Krusell and smith (1998), other important contributors to the life-cycle consumption literature specify income processes with positive probability of zero lifetime income. The Inada condition on the utility function then leads to a self-imposed borrowing constraint at 0: no agent facing a chance of zero lifetime income would ever borrow and risk zero or negative consumption for certain realizations of the stochastic income process (See, e.g., Carroll (1992, 1997) and Grouinchas and Parker (2002)) Thus, while still providing services and hence utility to households, durables lose their role as collateralizable assets. o	Here, main difference is that the interest rate is significantly lower in the case with no borrowing. Direct consequence of less demand for capital, due to the fact that households are prevented from borrowing. It can also be argued that households now are prevented from smoothing bad income realizations and hence wish to hold a higher buffer stock of financial assets to self-insure against this income risk, particularly early in life, when mean income is low. We will argue below when discussing life-cycle patterns of consumption and asset accumulation that, in the presence of consumer durables, this is not the caseo	The higher aggregate stock of capital mirrors results of Aiyagari (1994) with infinitely lived agents.o	Comparing the life-cycle patterns of average labor income and consumption:•	Income stays the same (by construction), while hump in consumption is more pronounced, the peak of consumption occurs later in life, and consumption declines more rapidly toward the end of life. Also, the size of the hump is much bigger than in the data, indicating that this specification of borrowing constraints is too extreme in imposing frictions on intertemporal trade. Because the interest rate is lower in the no-borrowing constraint economy agents, ceteris paribus, prefer a consumption profile that declines more rapidly toward the end of life, compared to the economy with endogenous borrowing constraints. This governs behavior after the age of around 45. Prior to that the constraint on borrowing determines the consumption choice. Young households expect increasing labor income, and hence would like to borrow, which they are prevented from doing. Consequently they spend all their income and accumulate no financial assets. Conditional on this fact, a decision that remains is the allocation of income between expenditures on nondurables and investment into consumer durables. Between the ages of 20 and 30 an increasing fraction of income is devoted to nondurables: at the beginning of life agents build up the stock of consumer durables, as with endogenous borrowing constraints. Because this accumulation cannot be credit-financed and hence comes at the expense of nondurable consumption, however, this process is slower in the economy with borrowing constraints that prevent all borrowing.•	Moreover, we see that financial assets are not used to buffer bad income shocks early in life (figure 20 p36) this is accomplished by holding durables, which both yield services and can be sold if necessary. Financial assets are used for retirement saving, as they become the dominant asset in the average houshold’s portfolio after the age of 40. •	Finally, one important difference between the two economies is that with endogenous borrowing constraints the net worth of the average young generation is (slightly) negative: even when taking account of consumer durables, hh up to the age of 30 borrow, on net, against their higher expected future labor income; mostly to finance the accumulation of durables, but also to smooth consumption over time and states ( in equilibrium the low interest rate relative to the time discount factor implies that a declining consumption profile is optimal).•	Consumer Durables and Fixed Down Payment (borrowing constraint not endogenous)o	Choose down payment of 0.2 for purchases of consumer durables following real estate market practices (Grossman and Laroque (1990) justify this practice based on liquidity costs associated with durables.o	Aggregates: interest rate is lower, stocks of physical capital and durables are higher. Stock of durables is even higher than in the benchmark economy. The result is closely related to the dual role of durables as collateral and as generator of utility. The use of durables as collateral also reduces the importance of physical capital as a buffer to smooth income fluctuations and, as a consequence, the stock of physical capital is lower than in the case in borrowing if not permitted altogether. o	Life-cycle patterns of average labor income and consumption: the possibility of partially financing the acquisition of durables reduces the hump with repect to the case of no borrowing, but it is still bigger than in our benchmark economy. o	Life-cycle patterns of consumer durables, financial wealth , and total wealth. In this picture we can see how households take advantage of durables as a collateral and how they have negative financial wealth until their diforties, a point at which they begin to save for retirement. However, in comparison to the benchmark case with endogenous borrowing constraint, total wealth is always strictly positive, because all borrowing has to be fully collateralized. •	Alternative parameter values•	“Higher persistence parameter: biggerhump in nondurable consumption -> higher persistence of labor income makes borrowing constraints tighter -> high-stock households have a higher incentive to default on debts when the shock is more persistent: they can leave behin their debts and rebuild their durables stock under the betterlabor-income perspectives. Also, as a higher degree of uncertainty needs to be revealed through life when shocks are more persistent (the reversion to the mean of a particular realization of the shock is lower or nonexistent if a unit root is present), risk-everse households will wait until more of this uncertainty is revealed before increasing their consumption. Quantitativel we found that moving persistence parameter to 0.99 is small) “•	“Similarly, effects of changing the elasticity of substitution between durables and nondurables is small. (elasticity is crucial in the case of real-business cycles models with household production (see. Greenwood et al. (1995)) because it governs the margin of substitution between the two sectors in the economy, in our model without endogenous labor choice it is of minor quantitative importance. Higher elasticities of substitution help to delay the building of a stock of durables slightly, improving the performance of the model to match the hump in durables, but they decrease the hump in nondurables consumption. •	Finally, to assess the importance of durables, we drive the weight of durables in the utility function to zero. Inthis case our models nests a dynamic general equilibrium version of Carroll (1997) and Gourinchas and Parker (2002) (even is some details in the labor income process or the treatment of retirement are different, the households’ problems are essentially equivalent.) we fint two main differences from our benchmark calibration:o	The hump in consumption is too bigo	Households accumulate a buffer stock of financial assets at the beginnings of their lives. With our benchmark choice of endogenous debt constraints, in absence of durables, the constraints collapses to a standard positive-borrowing condition, because without the punishment associated with the loss of durables, households do not have any incentive to pay back any negative amount of debt. (A specification sucha s Alvarez and Jermann’s (2000) borrowing constraints would allow some borrowing because there is an effective punishment for default: agents are forced to autarchy from the moment of default on. The quantitative effect of this specification in a life-cycle modl is an open question and is deferred to future research. See Azariadis and Lambertini (2003) for a treatment in a three-period OLG economy.) This hilghits the importance fo durables: they interact with nondurables to get the profile of life cycle right, they serve as a self-insurance device and they are key to properly accounting for the size and composition of household wealth.” (what’s up with the possibility of default????? Possible in my model????!!)The model explanationShow the model graphsHow does this arise within this model? Life-Cycle Profiles of Wealth: The asset-choice patternThe model explanation Expenditure for consumer durables over the life cycle: -	Fernandez-Villaverde and Krueger (2007) and Yang (2009) o	FV&K(2011)•	use data from Consumer Expenditure Survey (CEX) to show that consumption expenditure on durables follows a hump-shape pattern over the life cycle. •	Use data from the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF) 1995 to show that young hh own virtually no liquid financial assets but hold a major fraction of their wealth portfolios as durables, whereas later in life the composition of hh portfolios shifts in favor of financial assets •	Wealtho	Mean and median: wealth follows a hump-shaped pattern over life cycle. •	HH begin to run down their wealth when retirement starts •	Even after age of 80 wealth stays relatively high•	Wealth is very unequally distributed -> large ratio between hh mean and median net worth, highest just before retirement (at 400%)•	Durables are important in hh portfolios: plot percentages of portfolios held in real estate and percentages invested in corporate equity •	Show that only the highest 10% of the wealth distribution are hh where financial assets are a fundamentally important part of their portfolios -> hence “theory of life-cycle consumption and saving should account for the low levels of financial wealth of most households •	more importantly, for life-cycle consumption, portfolio composition of assets along the life cycle: o	show that primary residence is a basic component of the median assets of households over their lives o	Other sources for the life-cycle profile of assets:•	 Iacoviello&Pavan(2013) •	Dotsey_et_al(2014): “ housing adjustment costs contribute to the slow decline in the home ownership rate and the value of the housing stock owned as households age as in Yang (2009”•	Life-cycle aggregate: “households start with little wealth. They expect to have much higher earnings, and thus do not save much. During the early part of their lives, households borrow as much as possible to buy houses and save in the form of housing. As time progresses, households start to increase their financial asset holdings. The peak of the financial asset holding is reached at age 60. Agerwards, households start to run down their assets to finance consumption. Without bequest or precautionary saving motives, old households in our model run down their financial assets much more quickly than in the data (De Nardi et al. (2010) show that the risk of incurring substantial medical expenses generates precautionary savings and affects the wealth profile late in life).”•	Yang(2009): Discussion about the effect of transaction costs on housing. •	Halket&Vasudev(2014): Can explain the rise in home ownership over the life cycleo	Durable purchases over the later life cycle (Browning&Crossley… (2016)Show the model graphsHow does this arise within this model? The adjustement costs - The determinants of unsecured credit constraint – Choi, Koo, lim Yoo (2015)Definition of the adjustment costs-	Iacoviello&Pavan(2013)Their impact Yang(2009): Discussion about the effect of transaction costs on housing. Dotsey_et_al(2014): Part 7 - INSPECTING THE MODEL’S MECHANISMS•	Look at different variations of the model. May serve as basis for different analysis, as for example the impact of adjustment costs Halket&Vasudev(2014)The wealth distribution As in Hintermaier&Koeniger(2011): the distribution of wealth across the different age groups following the discussion of life-cycle profiles. The overall wealth-distribtionHalket&Vasudev(2014)- show the wealth distribution